# GDP Forecast Vector Autoregressive approach Using R

The purpose of this report is to perform various Vector Autoregressive (VAR) models to forecast the US real GDP growth. The models use time series that starts from the Q1 of 1959 and are provided by the Federal Reserve of Economic Data. We use time series of GDP, the unemployment rate, manufacturing industry capacity, inflation, Federal Funds rate, as well as stock market indexes and measures of liquidity in the economy like M1 Real. We start fitting a simple autoregressive (AR) model with only the information of the GDP itself. Then the six additional macroeconomic indicators are added to create a VAR model of order one to predict GDP growth. With this result Granger Causality is used to test possible causalities between the mentioned indicators and GDP. In addition, with the Akaike information criteria (AIC) the most suitable lag-order for VAR Techniques is selected. After applying the methods outlined above, we found that even though the AR(1) model underestimates variations in GDP growth it achieves a better value of root mean square error than VAR(1). The VAR(1) model gives reasonable and consistent predictions of expansions and recessions in the economy, however it is sensitive to extreme observations, which diminish its performance. The lag-one GDP growth and Inflation are the variables that are not Granger causal for GDP growth. Finally, according to the AIC, the three-lag-order provides the most information in the VAR model.

The used statistical methods as welll as the main resoults can be seen in the .PDF file "Jorge Duran_229487_P1.pdf". The R code used in this report can be found in "Jorge Duran_229487_P1.R". 
